[OSDOCS-4297]: adding release note for versioning support for hosted control planes (#54255)
openshift/openshift-docs: release_notes/ocp-4-12-release-notes.adoc

To use application credentials with your cluster as a {rh-openstack} administrator, create the credentials. Then, use them in a `clouds.yaml` file when you install a cluster. Alternatively, you can create the `clouds.yaml` file and rotate it into an existing cluster.

[id="ocp-4-12-hcp"]
=== Hosted control planes (Technology Preview)

[id="ocp-4-12-hcp-versioning"]
==== Versioning support for hosted control planes

> 

Reviewer: Thanks! I think this should read similar to:

With each major, minor, or patch version release of hypershift, 2 components of hosted control planes are released: the HyperShift Operator and the command-line interface (CLI). Any HyperShift Operator that is released for a minor _n_ version of {product-title} must support _n_, _n-1_, and _n-2_ versions of the Openshift release payload.
The HostedCluster and NodePool APIs are currently beta and follow similar policy to [Openshift](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.11/rest_api/understanding-api-support-tiers.html) and [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/kubernetes-api/).

Author: Thanks @enxebre! Your revision sounds good to me, and it made me realize that I need to update the information in the product docs (which is set to publish when 4.12 is GA). Those docs were reviewed and approved, but they say that 3 components are released with each release of OCP.[1] However, when I just cross-referenced the upstream docs, it looks like you are correct. 

I'll make a to-do for myself to update that part of the docs. 

[1]: Product docs preview: https://redhat:redhat@docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.12/architecture/control-plane.html#hosted-control-planes-version-support_control-plane

> With each major, minor, or patch version release of {product-title}, 3 components of hosted control planes are released: the HyperShift Operator, the `HostedCluster` and `NodePool` API resources, and the command-line interface (CLI). Any HyperShift Operator or API resources that are released for a minor _n_ version of {product-title} must support _n_, _n-1_, and _n-2_ versions of {product-title}. For more information, see xref:../architecture/control-plane.html#hosted-control-planes-version-support_control-plane[Versioning support for hosted control planes].

Reviewer 2: should we qualify this stmt?

do we need to qualify this stmt so that the min release version supported begins at GA of the hosted control plane technology and is not extended to prior releases?

Author: @derekwaynecarr Good question. Adel and I discussed adding an example to show real version numbers instead of simply saying _n_, _n-1_, and _n-2_, but hosted control planes haven't been out long enough to do that. I see your point of not wanting to imply that the support extends beyond the GA of hosted control planes. I can add some wording to clarify that. Maybe something like this? "Currently, because hosted control planes has been available only since version 4.11, support extends as far back as version 4.11."

To use application credentials with your cluster as a {rh-openstack} administrator, create the credentials. Then, use them in a `clouds.yaml` file when you install a cluster. Alternatively, you can create the `clouds.yaml` file and rotate it into an existing cluster.

[id="ocp-4-12-hcp"]
=== Hosted control planes (Technology Preview)

[id="ocp-4-12-hcp-versioning"]
==== Versioning for hosted control planes

> With each major, minor, or patch version release of {product-title}, 2 components of hosted control planes are released: the HyperShift Operator and the command-line interface (CLI). Any HyperShift Operator that is released for a minor _n_ version of {product-title} must work with _n_, _n-1_, and _n-2_ versions of {product-title}. However, because the hosted control planes feature was introduced as a Technology Preview in {product-title} version 4.11, it is currently available with versions only as far back as 4.11.

Reviewer 3: 2 -> two

Author: Just so I know for the future, do the OCP doc guidelines prefer words instead of numerals? IBM Style advises using numerals for all numbers, although spelling out 1-10 is acceptable if that is what is done consistently in a doc set. I hadn't seen any guidance for OCP stating anything different, so just wanted to check. https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=measurement-numerals-versus-words

Author: For the record, I've made the change, which I don't have an issue with :)

Reviewer 3: Oh interesting. I can't find any guidance on that either. I personally have seen the word being used more in the doc set, but I'm going to ask

> With each major, minor, or patch version release of {product-title}, 2 components of hosted control planes are released: the HyperShift Operator and the command-line interface (CLI). Any HyperShift Operator that is released for a minor _n_ version of {product-title} must work with _n_, _n-1_, and _n-2_ versions of {product-title}. However, because the hosted control planes feature was introduced as a Technology Preview in {product-title} version 4.11, it is currently available with versions only as far back as 4.11.

Reviewer 3: I haven't seen the `_n_` formating used for OCP versions. I have seen a few instances where we just use `z-stream`. Might need more of a discussion. Did you use this format before/was it suggested?

Author: That format was suggested by engineering. I agree it isn't the clearest, as _n_ is supposed to represent a minor version number, like 4.12. It's not referring to a z-stream. 

I wanted to add an example with real version numbers, but the PM and I decided against it because hosted control planes were introduced in 4.11, so it would be misleading if I wrote, "For example, a HyperShift Operator that is released for version 4.12 must work with version 4.12, 4.11, and 4.10." (Because hosted control planes weren't available in 4.10, that statement isn't true.) 

I have a to-do for myself to update this topic for 4.13 when I can honestly write, "For example, a HyperShift Operator that is released for version 4.13 must work with version 4.13, 4.12, and 4.11."

I hope that makes sense!

Author: I updated the draft to clarify the _n_ wording. Thank you, @kelbrown20!

> With each major, minor, or patch version release of {product-title}, 2 components of hosted control planes are released: the HyperShift Operator and the command-line interface (CLI). Any HyperShift Operator that is released for a minor _n_ version of {product-title} must work with _n_, _n-1_, and _n-2_ versions of {product-title}. However, because the hosted control planes feature was introduced as a Technology Preview in {product-title} version 4.11, it is currently available with versions only as far back as 4.11.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
With each major, minor, or patch version release of {product-title}, 2 components of hosted control planes are released: the HyperShift Operator and the command-line interface (CLI). Any HyperShift Operator that is released for a minor _n_ version of {product-title} must work with _n_, _n-1_, and _n-2_ versions of {product-title}. However, because the hosted control planes feature was introduced as a Technology Preview in {product-title} version 4.11, it is currently only available in versions 4.11 and above.
```
Contemplating removing the `currently` as well becuase I think the way it reads implies that there might be a back port in the future. Wdyt, also do you know if there might be a back port?

Author: Agree! I'll remove "currently". Great catch.
